# 1.2.4 Captions (Live)

- Level: AA
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.2 Time-based Media
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/captions-live.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#captions-live

## Requirement

Captions are provided for all live audio content in synchronized media.

## Definitions used

### captions

synchronized visual and/or text alternative for both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand the media content

Note 1

Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter, speaker identification and location.

Note 2

Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and off with some players.

Note 3

Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off. For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text embedded in video.

Note 4

Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant information in the video.

Note 5

In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

Note 6

Audio descriptions can be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of information that is already presented visually.

### live

information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the receiver with no more than a broadcast delay

Note 1

A broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay, for example used in order to give the broadcaster time to cue or censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient to allow significant editing.

Note 2

If information is completely computer generated, it is not live.

### audio

the technology of sound reproduction

Note

Audio can be created synthetically (including speech synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

### synchronized media

audio or video synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media alternative for text that is clearly labeled as such
