# 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)

- Level: A
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.2 Time-based Media
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-description-or-media-alternative-prerecorded.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#audio-description-or-media-alternative-prerecorded

## Requirement

An alternative for time-based media or audio description of the prerecorded video content is provided for synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

## Definitions used

### alternative for time-based media

document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

Note

A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately represent the final synchronized media after editing.

### audio description

narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

Note 1

Audio description of video provides information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen text, and other visual content.

Note 2

In standard audio description, narration is added during existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description.)

Note 3

Where all of the video information is already provided in existing audio, no additional audio description is necessary.

Note 4

Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

### prerecorded

information that is not live

### video

the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

Note

Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or both.

### synchronized media

audio or video synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media alternative for text that is clearly labeled as such

### media alternative for text

media that presents no more information than is already presented in text (directly or via text alternatives)

Note

A media alternative for text is provided for those who benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language video), or audio-video.
