# 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)

- Level: A
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.2 Time-based Media
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/captions-prerecorded.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#captions-prerecorded

## Requirement

Captions are provided for all prerecorded audio content in synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

## Definitions used

### captions

synchronized visual and/or text alternative for both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand the media content

Note 1

Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter, speaker identification and location.

Note 2

Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and off with some players.

Note 3

Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off. For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text embedded in video.

Note 4

Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant information in the video.

Note 5

In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

Note 6

Audio descriptions can be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of information that is already presented visually.

### prerecorded

information that is not live

### audio

the technology of sound reproduction

Note

Audio can be created synthetically (including speech synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

### synchronized media

audio or video synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media alternative for text that is clearly labeled as such

### media alternative for text

media that presents no more information than is already presented in text (directly or via text alternatives)

Note

A media alternative for text is provided for those who benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language video), or audio-video.
