# 1.3.6 Identify Purpose

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.3 Adaptable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/identify-purpose.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#identify-purpose

## Requirement

In content implemented using markup languages, the purpose of user interface components, icons, and regions can be programmatically determined.

## Definitions used

### user interface component

a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function

Note 1

Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element. "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as separate controls.

Note 2

User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts.

Note 3

What is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes called "user interface element".

Example

An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they would each be a "user interface component."

### region

perceivable, programmatically determined section of content

Note

In HTML, any area designated with a landmark role would be a region.

### programmatically determined

determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way that different user agents, including assistive technologies, can extract and present this information to users in different modalities

Example 1

Determined in a markup language from elements and attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available assistive technology.

Example 2

Determined from technology-specific data structures in a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive technology.
