# 1.4.7 Low or No Background Audio

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.4 Distinguishable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/low-or-no-background-audio.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#low-or-no-background-audio

## Requirement

For prerecorded audio-only content that (1) contains primarily speech in the foreground, (2) is not an audio CAPTCHA or audio logo, and (3) is not vocalization intended to be primarily musical expression such as singing or rapping, at least one of the following is true:

No Background

The audio does not contain background sounds.

Turn Off

The background sounds can be turned off.

20 dB

The background sounds are at least 20 decibels lower than the foreground speech content, with the exception of occasional sounds that last for only one or two seconds.

Note

Per the definition of "decibel," background sound that meets this requirement will be approximately four times quieter than the foreground speech content.

## Definitions used

### prerecorded

information that is not live

### audio-only

a time-based presentation that contains only audio (no video and no interaction)

### CAPTCHA

initialism for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart"

Note 1

CAPTCHA tests often involve asking the user to type in text that is displayed in an obscured image or audio file.

Note 2

A Turing test is any system of tests designed to differentiate a human from a computer. It is named after famed computer scientist Alan Turing. The term was coined by researchers at Carnegie Mellon University.
