# 1.4.4 Resize Text

- Level: AA
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.4 Distinguishable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/resize-text.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#resize-text

## Requirement

Except for captions and images of text, text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200 percent without loss of content or functionality.

## Definitions used

### captions

synchronized visual and/or text alternative for both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand the media content

Note 1

Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter, speaker identification and location.

Note 2

Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and off with some players.

Note 3

Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off. For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text embedded in video.

Note 4

Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant information in the video.

Note 5

In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

Note 6

Audio descriptions can be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of information that is already presented visually.

### image of text

text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in order to achieve a particular visual effect

Note

This does not include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

Example

A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

### text

sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined, where the sequence is expressing something in human language

### assistive technology

hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent, or along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet the requirements of users with disabilities that go beyond those offered by mainstream user agents

Note 1

Functionality provided by assistive technology includes alternative presentations (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified content), alternative input methods (e.g., voice), additional navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations (e.g., to make tables more accessible).

Note 2

Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages with mainstream user agents by using and monitoring APIs.

Note 3

The distinction between mainstream user agents and assistive technologies is not absolute. Many mainstream user agents provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities. The basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and diverse audiences that usually include people with and without disabilities. Assistive technologies target narrowly defined populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate to the needs of its target users. The mainstream user agent may provide important functionality to assistive technologies like retrieving web content from program objects or parsing markup into identifiable bundles.

Example

Assistive technologies that are important in the context of this document include the following:

screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which are used by people with visual, perceptual and physical print disabilities to change text font, size, spacing, color, synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual readability of rendered text and images;
screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read textual information through synthesized speech or braille;
text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with cognitive, language, and learning disabilities to convert text into synthetic speech;
speech recognition software, which may be used by people who have some physical disabilities;
alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities to simulate the keyboard (including alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single switches, sip/puff and other special input devices.);
alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities to simulate mouse pointing and button activations.
