# 1.4.12 Text Spacing

- Level: AA
- Principle: 1 Perceivable
- Guideline: 1.4 Distinguishable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/text-spacing.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#text-spacing

## Requirement

In content implemented using markup languages that support the following text style properties, no loss of content or functionality occurs by setting all of the following and by changing no other style property:

Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5 times the font size;
Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size;
Letter spacing (tracking) to at least 0.12 times the font size;
Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the font size.

Exception: Human languages and scripts that do not make use of one or more of these text style properties in written text can conform using only the properties that exist for that combination of language and script.

Note 1

Content is not required to use these text spacing values. The requirement is to ensure that when a user overrides the authored text spacing, content or functionality is not lost.

Note 2

Writing systems for some languages use different text spacing settings, such as paragraph start indent. Authors are encouraged to follow locally available guidance for improving readability and legibility of text in their writing system.

## Definitions used

### text

sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined, where the sequence is expressing something in human language

### style property

property whose value determines the presentation (e.g. font, color, size, location, padding, volume, synthesized speech prosody) of content elements as they are rendered (e.g. onscreen, via loudspeaker, via braille display) by user agents

Style properties can have several origins:

User agent default styles: The default style property values applied in the absence of any author or user styles. Some web content technologies specify a default rendering, others do not;
Author styles: Style property values that are set by the author as part of the content (e.g. in-line styles, author style sheets);
User styles: Style property values that are set by the user (e.g. via user agent interface settings, user style sheets)

### human language

language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or tactile means) to communicate with humans

Note

See also sign language.
