# 2.1.1 Keyboard

- Level: A
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.1 Keyboard Accessible
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/keyboard.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#keyboard

## Requirement

All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of the user's movement and not just the endpoints.

Note 1

This exception relates to the underlying function, not the input technique. For example, if using handwriting to enter text, the input technique (handwriting) requires path-dependent input but the underlying function (text input) does not.

Note 2

This does not forbid and should not discourage providing mouse input or other input methods in addition to keyboard operation.

## Definitions used

### functionality

processes and outcomes achievable through user action

### keyboard interface

interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

Note 1

A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a keyboard.

Example

A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards. Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard input either from an external keyboard or from other applications that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard emulation" functionality.

Note 2

Operation of the application (or parts of the application) through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because operation of the program is through its pointing device interface, not through its keyboard interface.
