# 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide

- Level: A
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.2 Enough Time
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pause-stop-hide.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#pause-stop-hide

## Requirement

For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information, all of the following are true:

Moving, blinking, scrolling

For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it is essential; and

Auto-updating

For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and (2) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential.

Note 1

For requirements related to flickering or flashing content, refer to Guideline 2.3.

Note 2

Since any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all content on the web page (whether it is used to meet other success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference.

Note 3

Content that is updated periodically by software or that is streamed to the user agent is not required to preserve or present information that is generated or received between the initiation of the pause and resuming presentation, as this may not be technically possible, and in many situations could be misleading to do so.

Note 4

An animation that occurs as part of a preload phase or similar situation can be considered essential if interaction cannot occur during that phase for all users and if not indicating progress could confuse users or cause them to think that content was frozen or broken.

## Definitions used

### blinking

switch back and forth between two visual states in a way that is meant to draw attention

Note

See also flash. It is possible for something to be large enough and blink brightly enough at the right frequency to be also classified as a flash.

### mechanism

process or technique for achieving a result

Note 1

The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note 2

The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.

### paused

stopped by user request and not resumed until requested by user

### essential

if removed, would fundamentally change the information or functionality of the content, and information and functionality cannot be achieved in another way that would conform
