# 2.4.11 Focus Not Obscured (Minimum)

- Level: AA
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.4 Navigable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/focus-not-obscured-minimum.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#focus-not-obscured-minimum

## Requirement

New

When a user interface component receives keyboard focus, the component is not entirely hidden due to author-created content.

Note 1

Where content in a configurable interface can be repositioned by the user, then only the initial positions of user-movable content are considered for testing and conformance of this success criterion.

Note 2

Content opened by the user may obscure the component receiving focus. If the user can reveal the focused component without advancing the keyboard focus, the component with focus is not considered visually hidden due to author-created content.

## Definitions used

### user interface component

a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function

Note 1

Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element. "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as separate controls.

Note 2

User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts.

Note 3

What is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes called "user interface element".

Example

An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they would each be a "user interface component."
