# 2.4.10 Section Headings

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.4 Navigable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/section-headings.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#section-headings

## Requirement

Section headings are used to organize the content.

Note 1

"Heading" is used in its general sense and includes titles and other ways to add a heading to different types of content.

Note 2

This success criterion covers sections within writing, not user interface components. User interface components are covered under Success Criterion 4.1.2.

## Definitions used

### section

a self-contained portion of written content that deals with one or more related topics or thoughts

Note

A section may consist of one or more paragraphs and include graphics, tables, lists and sub-sections.

### user interface component

a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function

Note 1

Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element. "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as separate controls.

Note 2

User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts.

Note 3

What is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes called "user interface element".

Example

An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they would each be a "user interface component."
