# 2.4.13 Focus Appearance

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.4 Navigable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/focus-appearance.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#focus-appearance

## Requirement

New

When the keyboard focus indicator is visible, an area of the focus indicator meets all the following:

is at least as large as the area of a 2 CSS pixel thick perimeter of the unfocused component or sub-component, and
has a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 between the same pixels in the focused and unfocused states.

Exceptions:

The focus indicator is determined by the user agent and cannot be adjusted by the author, or
The focus indicator and the indicator's background color are not modified by the author.

Note 1

What is perceived as the user interface component or sub-component (to determine the perimeter) depends on its visual presentation. The visual presentation includes the component's visible content, border, and component-specific background. It does not include shadow and glow effects outside the component's content, background, or border.

Note 2

Examples of sub-components that may receive a focus indicator are menu items in an opened drop-down menu, or focusable cells in a grid.

Note 3

Contrast calculations can be based on colors defined within the technology (such as HTML, CSS, and SVG). Pixels modified by user agent resolution enhancements and anti-aliasing can be ignored.

## Definitions used

### focus indicator

New

pixels that are changed to visually indicate when a user interface component is in a focused state

### CSS pixel

visual angle of about 0.0213 degrees

A CSS pixel is the canonical unit of measure for all lengths and measurements in CSS. This unit is density-independent, and distinct from actual hardware pixels present in a display. User agents and operating systems should ensure that a CSS pixel is set as closely as possible to the CSS Values and Units Module Level 3 reference pixel [css3-values], which takes into account the physical dimensions of the display and the assumed viewing distance (factors that cannot be determined by content authors).

### perimeter

New

continuous line forming the boundary of a shape not including shared pixels, or the minimum bounding box, whichever is shortest.

Example

The perimeter calculation for a 2 CSS pixel perimeter around a rectangle is 4h+4w, where h is the height and w is the width. For a 2 CSS pixel perimeter around a circle it is 4𝜋r.

### user agent

any software that retrieves and presents web content for users

Example

Web browsers, media players, plug-ins, and other programs — including assistive technologies — that help in retrieving, rendering, and interacting with web content.

### presentation

rendering of the content in a form to be perceived by users

### content

information and sensory experience to be communicated to the user by means of a user agent, including code or markup that defines the content's structure, presentation, and interactions

### technology

mechanism for encoding instructions to be rendered, played or executed by user agents

Note 1

As used in these guidelines "web technology" and the word "technology" (when used alone) both refer to web content technologies.

Note 2

Web content technologies may include markup languages, data formats, or programming languages that authors may use alone or in combination to create end-user experiences that range from static web pages to synchronized media presentations to dynamic Web applications.

Example

Some common examples of web content technologies include HTML, CSS, SVG, PNG, PDF, Flash, and JavaScript.
