# 2.4.5 Multiple Ways

- Level: AA
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.4 Navigable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/multiple-ways.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#multiple-ways

## Requirement

More than one way is available to locate a web page within a set of web pages except where the web page is the result of, or a step in, a process.

## Definitions used

### web page

a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be rendered together with it by a user agent

Note 1

Although any "other resources" would be rendered together with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered simultaneously with each other.

Note 2

For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to be considered a web page.

Example 1

A web resource including all embedded images and media.

Example 2

A web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox, contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the page as a whole.

Example 3

A customizable portal site, where users can choose content to display from a set of different content modules.

Example 4

When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page website or just one page within a website.

### set of web pages

collection of web pages that share a common purpose and that are created by the same author, group or organization

Example

Examples include:

a publication which is split across multiple web pages, where each page contains one chapter or other significant section of the work. The publication is logically a single contiguous unit, and contains navigation features that enable access to the full set of pages.
an e-commerce website shows products in a set of web pages that all share the same navigation and identification. However, when progressing to the checkout process, the template changes; the navigation and other elements are removed, so the pages in that process are functionally and visually different. The checkout pages are not part of the set of product pages.
a blog on a sub-domain (e.g. blog.example.com) which has a different navigation and is authored by a distinct set of people from the pages on the primary domain (example.com).
Note

Different language versions would be considered different sets of web pages.

### process

series of user actions where each action is required in order to complete an activity

Example 1

Successful use of a series of web pages on a shopping site requires users to view alternative products, prices and offers, select products, submit an order, provide shipping information and provide payment information.

Example 2

An account registration page requires successful completion of a Turing test before the registration form can be accessed.
