# 2.5.3 Label in Name

- Level: A
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.5 Input Modalities
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/label-in-name.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#label-in-name

## Requirement

For user interface components with labels that include text or images of text, the name contains the text that is presented visually.

Note

A best practice is to have the text of the label at the start of the name.

## Definitions used

### user interface component

a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function

Note 1

Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element. "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as separate controls.

Note 2

User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts.

Note 3

What is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes called "user interface element".

Example

An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they would each be a "user interface component."

### label

text or other component with a text alternative that is presented to a user to identify a component within web content

Note 1

A label is presented to all users whereas the name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive technology. In many (but not all) cases the name and the label are the same.

Note 2

The term label is not limited to the label element in HTML.

### text

sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined, where the sequence is expressing something in human language

### image of text

text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in order to achieve a particular visual effect

Note

This does not include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

Example

A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

### name

text by which software can identify a component within web content to the user

Note 1

The name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive technology, whereas a label is presented to all users. In many (but not all) cases, the label and the name are the same.

Note 2

This is unrelated to the name attribute in HTML.
