# 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation

- Level: A
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.5 Input Modalities
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pointer-cancellation.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#pointer-cancellation

## Requirement

For functionality that can be operated using a single pointer, at least one of the following is true:

No Down-Event
The down-event of the pointer is not used to execute any part of the function;
Abort or Undo
Completion of the function is on the up-event, and a mechanism is available to abort the function before completion or to undo the function after completion;
Up Reversal
The up-event reverses any outcome of the preceding down-event;
Essential
Completing the function on the down-event is essential.

Note 1

Functions that emulate a keyboard or numeric keypad key press are considered essential.

Note 2

This requirement applies to web content that interprets pointer actions (i.e., this does not apply to actions that are required to operate the user agent or assistive technology).

## Definitions used

### functionality

processes and outcomes achievable through user action

### single pointer

an input modality that only targets a single point on the page/screen at a time – such as a mouse, single finger on a touch screen, or stylus.

Note

Single pointer interactions include clicks, double clicks, taps, dragging motions, and single-finger swipe gestures. In contrast, multipoint interactions involve the use of two or more pointers at the same time, such as two-finger interactions on a touchscreen, or the simultaneous use of a mouse and stylus.

### down-event

platform event that occurs when the trigger stimulus of a pointer is depressed

The down-event may have different names on different platforms, such as "touchstart" or "mousedown".

### up-event

platform event that occurs when the trigger stimulus of a pointer is released

The up-event may have different names on different platforms, such as "touchend" or "mouseup".

### mechanism

process or technique for achieving a result

Note 1

The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note 2

The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.

### essential

if removed, would fundamentally change the information or functionality of the content, and information and functionality cannot be achieved in another way that would conform
