# 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)

- Level: AA
- Principle: 2 Operable
- Guideline: 2.5 Input Modalities
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/target-size-minimum.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#target-size-minimum

## Requirement

New

The size of the target for pointer inputs is at least 24 by 24 CSS pixels, except when:

Spacing
Undersized targets (those less than 24 by 24 CSS pixels) are positioned so that if a 24 CSS pixel diameter circle is centered on the bounding box of each, the circles do not intersect another target or the circle for another undersized target;
Equivalent
The function can be achieved through a different control on the same page that meets this criterion;
Inline
The target is in a sentence or its size is otherwise constrained by the line-height of non-target text;
User Agent Control
The size of the target is determined by the user agent and is not modified by the author;
Essential
A particular presentation of the target is essential or is legally required for the information being conveyed.

Note 1

Targets that allow for values to be selected spatially based on position within the target are considered one target for the purpose of the success criterion. Examples include sliders, color pickers displaying a gradient of colors, or editable areas where you position the cursor.

Note 2

For inline targets the line-height should be interpreted as perpendicular to the flow of text. For example, in a language displayed vertically, the line-height would be horizontal.

## Definitions used

### target

region of the display that will accept a pointer action, such as the interactive area of a user interface component

Note

If two or more targets are overlapping, the overlapping area should not be included in the measurement of the target size, except when the overlapping targets perform the same action or open the same page.

### pointer input

input from a device that can target a specific coordinate (or set of coordinates) on a screen, such as a mouse, pen, or touch contact

Note

See the Pointer Events definition for "pointer" [pointerevents].

### CSS pixel

visual angle of about 0.0213 degrees

A CSS pixel is the canonical unit of measure for all lengths and measurements in CSS. This unit is density-independent, and distinct from actual hardware pixels present in a display. User agents and operating systems should ensure that a CSS pixel is set as closely as possible to the CSS Values and Units Module Level 3 reference pixel [css3-values], which takes into account the physical dimensions of the display and the assumed viewing distance (factors that cannot be determined by content authors).

### minimum bounding box

New

the smallest enclosing rectangle aligned to the horizontal axis within which all the points of a shape lie. For components which wrap onto multiple lines as part of a sentence or block of text (such as hypertext links), the bounding box is based on how the component would appear on a single line.

### user agent

any software that retrieves and presents web content for users

Example

Web browsers, media players, plug-ins, and other programs — including assistive technologies — that help in retrieving, rendering, and interacting with web content.

### presentation

rendering of the content in a form to be perceived by users

### essential

if removed, would fundamentally change the information or functionality of the content, and information and functionality cannot be achieved in another way that would conform
