# 3.1.1 Language of Page

- Level: A
- Principle: 3 Understandable
- Guideline: 3.1 Readable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/language-of-page.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#language-of-page

## Requirement

The default human language of each web page can be programmatically determined.

## Definitions used

### human language

language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or tactile means) to communicate with humans

Note

See also sign language.

### web page

a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be rendered together with it by a user agent

Note 1

Although any "other resources" would be rendered together with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered simultaneously with each other.

Note 2

For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to be considered a web page.

Example 1

A web resource including all embedded images and media.

Example 2

A web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox, contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the page as a whole.

Example 3

A customizable portal site, where users can choose content to display from a set of different content modules.

Example 4

When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page website or just one page within a website.

### programmatically determined

determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way that different user agents, including assistive technologies, can extract and present this information to users in different modalities

Example 1

Determined in a markup language from elements and attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available assistive technology.

Example 2

Determined from technology-specific data structures in a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive technology.
