# 3.1.3 Unusual Words

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 3 Understandable
- Guideline: 3.1 Readable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/unusual-words.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#unusual-words

## Requirement

A mechanism is available for identifying specific definitions of words or phrases used in an unusual or restricted way, including idioms and jargon.

## Definitions used

### mechanism

process or technique for achieving a result

Note 1

The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note 2

The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.

### used in an unusual or restricted way

words used in such a way that requires users to know exactly which definition to apply in order to understand the content correctly

Example

The term "gig" means something different if it occurs in a discussion of music concerts than it does in article about computer hard drive space, but the appropriate definition can be determined from context. By contrast, the word "text" is used in a very specific way in WCAG 2, so a definition is supplied in the glossary.

### idiom

phrase whose meaning cannot be deduced from the meaning of the individual words and the specific words cannot be changed without losing the meaning

Note

Idioms cannot be translated directly, word for word, without losing their (cultural or language-dependent) meaning.

Example 1

In English, "spilling the beans" means "revealing a secret." However, "knocking over the beans" or "spilling the vegetables" does not mean the same thing.

Example 2

In Japanese, the phrase "さじを投げる" literally translates into "he throws a spoon," but it means that there is nothing he can do and finally he gives up.

Example 3

In Dutch, "Hij ging met de kippen op stok" literally translates into "He went to roost with the chickens," but it means that he went to bed early.

### jargon

words used in a particular way by people in a particular field

Example

The word StickyKeys is jargon from the field of assistive technology/accessibility.
