# 3.2.1 On Focus

- Level: A
- Principle: 3 Understandable
- Guideline: 3.2 Predictable
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/on-focus.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#on-focus

## Requirement

When any user interface component receives focus, it does not initiate a change of context.

## Definitions used

### user interface component

a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function

Note 1

Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element. "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as separate controls.

Note 2

User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts.

Note 3

What is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes called "user interface element".

Example

An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they would each be a "user interface component."

### changes of context

major changes that, if made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to view the entire page simultaneously

Changes in context include changes of:

user agent;
viewport;
focus;
content that changes the meaning of the web page
Note

A change of content is not always a change of context. Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also change one of the above (e.g., focus).

Example

Opening a new window, moving focus to a different component, going to a new page (including anything that would look to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.
