# 3.3.6 Error Prevention (All)

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 3 Understandable
- Guideline: 3.3 Input Assistance
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/error-prevention-all.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#error-prevention-all

## Requirement

For web pages that require the user to submit information, at least one of the following is true:

Reversible
Submissions are reversible.
Checked
Data entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.
Confirmed
A mechanism is available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information before finalizing the submission.

## Definitions used

### web page

a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be rendered together with it by a user agent

Note 1

Although any "other resources" would be rendered together with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered simultaneously with each other.

Note 2

For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to be considered a web page.

Example 1

A web resource including all embedded images and media.

Example 2

A web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox, contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the page as a whole.

Example 3

A customizable portal site, where users can choose content to display from a set of different content modules.

Example 4

When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page website or just one page within a website.

### input error

information provided by the user that is not accepted

Note

This includes:

Information that is required by the web page but omitted by the user
Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside the required data format or values

### mechanism

process or technique for achieving a result

Note 1

The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note 2

The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.
