# 3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)

- Level: AA
- Principle: 3 Understandable
- Guideline: 3.3 Input Assistance
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/accessible-authentication-minimum.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#accessible-authentication-minimum

## Requirement

New

A cognitive function test (such as remembering a password or solving a puzzle) is not required for any step in an authentication process unless that step provides at least one of the following:

Alternative
Another authentication method that does not rely on a cognitive function test.
Mechanism
A mechanism is available to assist the user in completing the cognitive function test.
Object Recognition
The cognitive function test is to recognize objects.
Personal Content
The cognitive function test is to identify non-text content the user provided to the website.

Note 1

"Object recognition" and "Personal content" may be represented by images, video, or audio.

Note 2
Examples of mechanisms that satisfy this criterion include:
support for password entry by password managers to reduce memory need, and
copy and paste to reduce the cognitive burden of re-typing.

## Definitions used

### cognitive function test

New

A task that requires the user to remember, manipulate, or transcribe information. Examples include, but are not limited to:

memorization, such as remembering a username, password, set of characters, images, or patterns. The common identifiers name, e-mail, and phone number are not considered cognitive function tests as they are personal to the user and consistent across websites;
transcription, such as typing in characters;
use of correct spelling;
performance of calculations;
solving of puzzles.

### process

series of user actions where each action is required in order to complete an activity

Example 1

Successful use of a series of web pages on a shopping site requires users to view alternative products, prices and offers, select products, submit an order, provide shipping information and provide payment information.

Example 2

An account registration page requires successful completion of a Turing test before the registration form can be accessed.

### mechanism

process or technique for achieving a result

Note 1

The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note 2

The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.

### non-text content

any content that is not a sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined or where the sequence is not expressing something in human language

Note

This includes ASCII art (which is a pattern of characters), emoticons, leetspeak (which uses character substitution), and images representing text
