# 3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)

- Level: AAA
- Principle: 3 Understandable
- Guideline: 3.3 Input Assistance
- Understanding: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/accessible-authentication-enhanced.html
- How to meet: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#accessible-authentication-enhanced

## Requirement

New

A cognitive function test (such as remembering a password or solving a puzzle) is not required for any step in an authentication process unless that step provides at least one of the following:

Alternative
Another authentication method that does not rely on a cognitive function test.
Mechanism
A mechanism is available to assist the user in completing the cognitive function test.

## Definitions used

### cognitive function test

New

A task that requires the user to remember, manipulate, or transcribe information. Examples include, but are not limited to:

memorization, such as remembering a username, password, set of characters, images, or patterns. The common identifiers name, e-mail, and phone number are not considered cognitive function tests as they are personal to the user and consistent across websites;
transcription, such as typing in characters;
use of correct spelling;
performance of calculations;
solving of puzzles.

### process

series of user actions where each action is required in order to complete an activity

Example 1

Successful use of a series of web pages on a shopping site requires users to view alternative products, prices and offers, select products, submit an order, provide shipping information and provide payment information.

Example 2

An account registration page requires successful completion of a Turing test before the registration form can be accessed.

### mechanism

process or technique for achieving a result

Note 1

The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note 2

The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.
